Cleanup XTypes Section in Devguide (#4092)
OpenDDS/OpenDDS: docs/devguide/xtypes.rst

..
    Sect<16.2.1>

There are 3 kinds of extensibility for types:

*Appendable*

>   It denotes a constructed type which may have additional members added onto or removed from the end, but not both at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Appendable denotes a constructed type which may have additional members added onto or removed from the end, but not both at the same time.
```

>   It's used by default, but a type can be explicitly marked as appendable with the :ref:`@appendable <xtypes--appendable>` annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Appendable is the default extensibility.
  A type can be explicitly marked as appendable with the :ref:`@appendable <xtypes--appendable>` annotation.
```

*Mutable*

>   It denotes a constructed type that allows for members to be added, removed, and reordered so long as the keys and the required members of the sender and receiver remain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Mutable denotes a constructed type that allows for members to be added, removed, and reordered so long as the keys and the required members of the sender and receiver remain.
```

  Mutable extensibility is accomplished by assigning a stable identifier to each member.
  A type can be marked as mutable with the :ref:`@mutable <xtypes--mutable>` annotation.

*Final*

>   It denotes a constructed type that can not add, remove, or reorder members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Final denotes a constructed type that can not add, remove, or reorder members.
```

Additionally, the XTypes-enabled participant needs to be set up as follows:

* Types cannot use mutable extensibility

* Data Writers must have their Data Representation QoS policy set to ``DDS::XCDR_DATA_REPRESENTATION``

> * Data Readers must include ``DDS::XCDR_DATA_REPRESENTATION`` in the list of data representations in their Data Representation QoS (This is true by default)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Data Readers must include ``DDS::XCDR_DATA_REPRESENTATION`` in the list of data representations in their Data Representation QoS (true by default)
```

..
    Sect<16.3.5>

The third kind of extensibility is final.

> Annotating a type with ``@final`` means that it will not be compatible with (assignable to/from) a type that's structurally different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Annotating a type with ``@final`` means that it will not be compatible with (assignable to/from) a type that is structurally different.
```

.. _xtypes--type-compatibility:

Type Compatibility
==================

When a reader/writer match is happening, type consistency enforcement checks that the two types are compatible according to the type objects if they are available.
This check will not happen if OpenDDS has been :ref:`configured not to generate or use type objects <xtypes--representing-types-with-typeobject-and-dynamictype>` or if the remote DDS doesn't support type objects.
The full type object compatibility check is too detailed to reproduce here.
It can be found in section 7.2.4 of the XTypes 1.3 specification.
In general though two topic types and their nested types are compatible if:

  * Extensibilities of shared types match
  * Extensibility rules haven't been broken, for example:

    * Changing a ``@final`` struct
    * Adding a member in the middle of an ``@appendable`` struct

  * Length bounds of strings and sequences are the same or greater
  * Lengths of arrays are exactly the same
  * The keys of the types match exactly
  * Shared member IDs match when required, like when they are final or are being used as keys

If the type objects are compatible then the match goes ahead.

> If one or both type objects are not available, then OpenDDS falls back to checking if the topic type names match.

Reviewer 2: It might be more clear to call this type "TypeSupport type name" although they're both correct.

..
    Sect<16.6.3>

The extensibility annotations can explicitly define the :ref:`extensibility <xtypes--extensibility>` of a type.
If no extensibility annotation is set, the type will default to appendable.

> This default can be changed with the :ref:`--default-extensibility <opendds_idl--default-extensibility>` opendds_idl option.

Reviewer 2: I think this would be clearer if the middle sentence was something like "If no extensibility annotation is used, the compiler's default will take effect.  Without additional command-line options, the compiler's default is (appendable)."

Together with DynamicType, DynamicData allows users to interpret a received data sample and read individual fields from it.
Each DynamicData object is associated with a type, represented by a DynamicType object, and the data corresponding to an instance of that type.

> Let's take a look at an example with the following type, described below in IDL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following example:
```

Besides a list of methods for getting values of members of basic types, DynamicData also defines methods for reading sequence members.
In particular, for each method that reads value from a basic type, there is a counterpart that reads a sequence of the same basic type.
For instance, ``get_int32_value`` reads the value from a member of type ``int32``/``long``, and ``get_int32_values`` reads the value from a member of type ``sequence<int32>``.
For the member ``ul_seq_field`` in our example, its value can be read as follows.

.. code-block:: cpp

>     DDS::UInt32Seq my_ul_seq;

Reviewer 2: Has anyone tried this in a test?  I'm not sure it will directly work because different sequence typedefs in IDL generate distinct mapped classes.

Author: The `get_*_values` are defined using `DDS::*Seq`.

https://github.com/OpenDDS/OpenDDS/blob/3734398337a043e067fe6439e09100f974962e94/dds/DdsDynamicData.idl#L307-L308

Reviewer 2: Right, I confused this with the other use of `DDS::` module

    DDS::DynamicData_var dynamic =
      DDS::DynamicDataFactory::get_instance()->create_data(type);

Like other data types defined by IDL interfaces (for example, the ``*TypeSupportImpl`` types), the "dynamic" object's lifetime is managed with a smart pointer – in this case ``DDS::DynamicData_var``.

The "type" input parameter to ``create_data()`` is an object that implements the ``DDS::DynamicType`` interface.
The DynamicType representation of any type that's supported as a topic data type is available from its corresponding TypeSupport object (see :ref:`xtypes--obtaining-dynamictype-and-registering-typesupport`) using the ``get_type()`` operation.
Once the application has access to that top-level type, the DynamicType interface can be used to obtain complete information about the type including nested and referenced data types.
See the file :ghfile:`dds/DdsDynamicData.idl` in OpenDDS for the definition of the DynamicType and related interfaces.

Once the application has created the DynamicData object, it can be populated with data members of any type.
The operations used for this include the DynamicData operations named "set_*" for the various data types.

> They work similarly to the "get_*" operations that are described in :ref:`xtypes--interpreting-data-samples-with-dynamicdata`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are analogous to the "get_*" operations that are described in :ref:`xtypes--interpreting-data-samples-with-dynamicdata`.
```
